Extracted instances of ['help', 'helpful', 'helping', 'helped'] from all Hansard files
============================================================

...but it caused me to pass a very melancholy Sunday morning in endeavouring to master its contents. It is a most sorry record of official diplomacy. Of course, one cannot help one's thoughts being influenced by the fact that news had come to this country that morning of the great, distinguished, and, as it appears, quite unusual rewards conferred by the Russian Government on General Komaroff. One cannot help feeling that the Russian Government had every rea- son to confer unusually high rewards on their officers, and that the House of...
...that news had come to this country that morning of the great, distinguished, and, as it appears, quite unusual rewards conferred by the Russian Government on General Komaroff. One cannot help feeling that the Russian Government had every rea- son to confer unusually high rewards on their officers, and that the House of Commons, at any rate, had no reason to confer any rewards on Her Majesty's Government, in the shape of showing confidence in them, or of abstaining from proceedings which may be disagreeable to them. I do not generally...
...ever shown the slightest indisposition to listen to any case that was properly brought forward and represented by any of its Members; but, at the same time, he could not help thinking it was a highly inconvenient course, and one that did not tend to raise the character or the credit of that House, to have questions of the kind that had just been raised—questions of a judicial nature, involving important considerations connected with the administration of justice—suddenly sprung upon the House without having been previously put upon the Notice Paper,...
...to the tenants in other parts of Scotland, who would no doubt say to themselves that there was nothing to be hoped for by submitting and waiting for Parliament to help them, and that they must take strong measures to assert their rights. Under those circumstances, they might look forward to claims being advanced with greater pressure than they had hitherto been. There remained just one point on which he hoped the Lord Advocate would be able to give some information. It related to evictions; and he would ask whether measures...
...was about to submit to the House did not turn upon the question of Egypt, but upon the question of the Soudan; and, looking at that question, he could not help feeling very strongly that when Her Majesty's Government enthroned Sir Evelyn Baring on the seat of the Pharoahs, and announced that they intended to give up the Soudan, that was a very highhanded act on the part of the Government of a country which was nothing but an intruder in Egypt. In doing so they entirely gave the goby to...
...movement, which had spread so enormously among the negroes, and the Arabic language and literature were better adapted to the Africans than any European influences, and had done much to help them to evolve a civilization of their own. Respect for the noble Earl's motives had led him on into those remarks on his abstract proposition. His excuse must be that it was impassible to treat any opinion of his with indifference. He would, however, ask him whether he would not be satisfied with having made his speech, without requiring the...
...But then the policy was monstrous that you should send such a man as General Gordon—perhaps the noblest character of our modern times—and intimate that on no account would you help him. If you sent General Gordon you were bound by every obligation of honour as well as policy to hold yourselves in readiness to rescue him by arms. As things then stood, to many of us in this country it seemed possible that the personal influence of General Gordon—so pure, so powerful, so magnetic in its character—might have been able...
...relief. But the time was lost; we did not know how to make up our minds; and from. May to August no determination was taken by the Government. I cannot help saying that I believe that delay, leading to the fall of Khartoum, will remain a permanent blot on the memory of the Government of this country. When Lord Wolseley's wonderful Expedition—for, as regards the conduct of the soldiers and the energy of every man in that Expedition, it has been one of the most wonderful Expeditions—it has been the admiration...
...take it that I am not to speak except to answer what he himself and those who support him have said. With regard to the noble Earl himself, I cannot help remarking upon the great change the noble Earl has made in his Motion—a great change over which the noble Earl himself very lightly glided. In his Motion he laid down originally that it was absolutely essential to the honour of this country, and essential for a great many other things, that a certain railway should be made from Suakin to...
...tried the door, and finding it locked burst it open and entered. The mob meanwhile smashed the windows, and, while the officers were pursuing their search in the uppermost rooms, helped themselves to all the contents of the bar beneath. Cigars, liquor, coats, and other property were carried off in the confusion. The police found a crowd of men upstairs all highly indignant at their club being stormed in this fashion. It is needless to say their search was not facilitated. The Social Democrats protested and obstructed. The police, with their...
...against the War Office. He knew that abundant supplies had been sent out; but the question was whether they had reached the troops, and on that point he could not help thinking that the troops were the best judges. The noble Earl had received Commissariat Reports. He would suggest that he should ask for more specific Reports from the Military Authorities. THE EARL OF MORLEY said, that the information given to the noble Earl (the Earl of Longford) was entirely wrong. That Return he had shown the noble Earl was not...
...of Magdala, Sir Donald Stewart, Sir Frederick Roberts, Sir Edward Hamley, and Sir Frederick Haines. Political opinion was no less in favor of it. On that point, he could not help reading to the House a snort passage from a Minute recorded in 1880 by Sir Henry Rawlinson. He said— Of all possible political shortcomings connected with Afghanistan, the most fatal, as it seems to me, would be the abandonment of this most promising undertaking. The railway was the most efficient arm of defence hitherto devised against Russian aggression, far more...
...Friend had also stated that railways did not prevent famine. That was literally true. But they obviated the worst results of famine, and largely diminished the mortality. He could not help noticing that the Bill had undergone several changes since it was introduced. In its original form, it was a Bill to supply means for carry out the recommendations of the Select Committee which sat last Session, and the funds were to be devoted principally to the construction of commercial railways, whether reproductive or not. But since the Bill was introduced,...
...Prime Minister had done everything to debase, degrade, and estrange that country; and now, in his troubles and his difficulties, he was obliged to go to the unspeakable Turk to help him in the Soudan. It was to be hoped the country would never agree to Suakin being held by any other Power but ourselves. Our great object, it was always understood in Egypt, was to protect our highway to India and our great Australian Colonies; but if any other Power held Suakin, especially a European Power, and if that Power...
...energetic on other occasions in connection with subjects in which he was interested. The hon. Member was exhibiting great zeal on the present occasion; and he (Dr. Cameron) could not help thinking that if the House did not allow Mr. Speaker to leave the Chair now, in all probability the hon. Member would place himself in communication with the Clerks at the Table, and place a useful barrier in the way of proceeding with the Bill on future occasions. MR. PULESTON said, he thought the two speeches they had just heard...
...it lest it might give offence to England. He thought that an increased duty should be laid on wine and champagnes especially for this reason also—that such a course would help to reconcile the poorer classes of this country to the increased taxation imposed upon them. At the same time champagne, it should be remembered, was also taken by the lower classes a good deal. ["Oh!" and laughter. ] Yes, he believed that the miners in the North of England often drank it. For these reasons he would vote in favour...
...did not see the least inconsistency in voting for the second reading of the Bill now. MR. COOPE said, it was his intention to support the Amendment. He could not help thinking that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be woefully disappointed in the result which he expected from the increased duties on spirits and beer. He entertained a strong conviction that the increased duties on spirits would lead to no increase in the Revenue. He believed that not only smuggling and illicit distillation would increase, but that adulteration would be...
...be laid before both Houses of Parliament. He hoped that it would meet the suggestion of the noble Marquess opposite (the Marquess of Salisbury). VISCOUNT CRANBROOK said, he could not help expressing his surprise that, after what had already taken place on this subject, they should keep open a controversy for years to come with regard to so trivial a matter. He thought it would be better to settle the question now. LORD NORTON said, he wished to point out that there would be difficulties in ascertaining the views of the...
...in cases where the same conditions, the same urgency, and the same general assent should seem to recommend it. These are the observations I wish to make, and I cannot help thinking that they represent the evident sense of the House. SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH I think the closing words of the right hon. Gentleman place us in a considerable difficulty. How is it possible for us to set a precedent as to which we can be perfectly sure that no peculiar circumstances, or circumstances said to be peculiar, will recur to...
...revision of the lists of voters, the Revising Barrister might say that he wanted help; and the clause sent down from the House of Lords gave power to enable that help to be afforded. The clause provided that if in the present year it was made to appear to any Judge of the High Court of Justice, sitting in Chambers, at any time after the 5th of September, that the lists of voters for any Parliamentary county or borough in England could not by reason of the insufficient number of Barristers...
...man does not keep his promise in commercial matters, if he does it intentionally, you say he is a swindler; if he fails to keep his promise, because he cannot help it, you say he is a bankrupt. But whether swindler or bankrupt you are very careful in trusting him next time. THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER (Sir MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH) No, Sir. I ought to add, though, that my noble Friend beside me (Lord Randolph Churchill) informs me that the quotation of his statements is not accurate. I must also not...
...(Mr. Parnell), he trusted he would be able to accede to the wish of the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy. THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE COLONIES said, he could not help feeling the great force of the appeal made to him by hon. Gentlemen opposite. Communications were passing daily on the subject referred to by the hon. Member for Kirkcaldy, which rendered it in the highest sense desirable that they should not enter into a general discussion, with the present imperfect information which they possessed, of a Vote which did not...
...the India Office he would see a great deal that it was desirable to reform in many ways. While desirous of saying nothing against the Indian Council, he could not help thinking that in its case the proverb held good that "too many cooks spoil the broth." No doubt, the Indian Council was composed of men of high character and high standing in regard to commercial matters as well as personally. He thought, however, that the noble Lord would find in connection with these matters a great deal capable of improvement....
...Minister or the Lord Lieutenant. My noble Friend had a perfect right to speak, and he used that right in a spirit which no man can challenge. But I cannot help observing upon the anomalous position of the Leader of the Liberal Party in this House, who expresses serious doubts as to the possibility of doing without exceptional legislation when we have on the Conservative side a declaration that they mean to try the experiment, and figures are quoted to prove that they are safe in doing so. This is a...
...mean to try the experiment, and figures are quoted to prove that they are safe in doing so. This is a transposition of parts which is very peculiar. I cannot help observing that this is the result of our political situation. My feeling is, this being the last of Ministerial explanations, that we have not yet had a fitting opportunity of discussing the political situation. The two Front Benches have had their say. But the independent Members of the House have had no opportunity of expressing their opinions upon the peculiarities...
...of local self-government in a complete sense and upon a large scale is, in my judgment, the primary want of Ireland, without which no mere cessation of repressive legislation can help the country far onward on the road towards political peace and happiness and union with, this country. That, in my opinion, is the main question for Ireland, and here I am led to notice a subject with which the right hon. Gentleman dealt, and with regard to which I will endeavour to give him such limited assistance as is in...
...effected in the telegraph rate during the late autumn; and he desired to bring under the attention of the Government the financial effects of dropping that measure. He could not help thinking that the Government had not sufficiently considered the fact that £500,000 had been spent upon new plant which would be necessary in case the cost of telegrams was lowered from 1s. to 6 d. Moreover, a very large staff had been taken on at the Post Office with a view of introducing the new tariff during the coming autumn....
...in the charge, ho did not think that diminution was at all proportionate to the number of cases tried this year as compared with the year before. He could not help thinking that the reason why the diminution was not very much greater arose from an evil which Her Majesty's Government might remedy—that was to say, the unfortunate practice which had lately sprung up of the Judges trying Sessional cases. The expense occasioned by that to the country was very great; and he would, with the permission of the Committee, give...
...the other view and said—"Do not level down, but level up, and let the Common Law Judges have the expenses of all the Circuits paid for them." He could not help thinking that that ought to have been done openly and in an Act of Parliament, if done at all. He did not think it consistent with the character of the Judges to make a bargain with the Secretary to the Treasury for the time being by which they obtained an addition of £500 a-year to their salaries. That, however, was...
...especially drew the attention of the Attorney General to the matter, because, though, he was not going to ask him to give an opinion against the Judges, he could not help thinking that they had rendered themselves liable to an indictment for breach of the Order. No doubt his hon. and learned Friend, who would defend them, would find some words at the end of the Order which would defeat any indictment which might be brought against the Judges for having violated the Order. The Order said— The Assizes shall be...
...in the proceedings of the Board of Admiralty under the present system, and that it was hopeless to expect any. He was satisfied that they were only, by their criticisms, helping to maintain a state of things by which other nations were led into the same miserable policy of unduly increasing their outlay instead of restricting it within rational limits. CAPTAIN PRICE said, that on page 17 of the Votes there was an item of £500 for services in connection with the Intelligence Department. He wished to know whether that item...
...alteration in the Budget proposals as brought in a couple of months ago in that he was not going to anticipate the Sinking Fund of next year. He could not help thinking that the principle of anticipating the Sinking Fund and the paying off of a part of the National Debt was a somewhat dangerous one; and ho was well satisfied that the right hon. Gentleman had thought right to make an alteration in that respect. In other respects he saw that "coming events cast their shadows before." There was in...
...he saw that "coming events cast their shadows before." There was in the Budget proposals of the right hon. Gentleman a very dark shadow in many respects. He could not help thinking that, whilst hon. Members on the other side of the House had described the late Budget as a £100,000,000 one, they should describe the present proposals as a 100,000,000 Vote Budget. He could not help thinking that it was, to some extent, a popularity Budget. The effect of the proposals before the Committee was that the Treasury should have...
...on the other side of the House had described the late Budget as a £100,000,000 one, they should describe the present proposals as a 100,000,000 Vote Budget. He could not help thinking that it was, to some extent, a popularity Budget. The effect of the proposals before the Committee was that the Treasury should have power to issue £4,000,000 of Treasury Bills to meet the requirements of the moment. The late Government had given them good hopes that £2,000,000 of the £11,000,000 would not really be required; but now the right...
...every prospect of these bad times continuing. Taking these matters into consideration, and also the large charges which were laid upon the land in rates and tithes, he could not help thinking that the land was practically verging upon bankruptcy. The measure of 1882 had been the crowning act of Earl Cairns's labours in the direction of freeing the land from the burdens under which it lay, and by it the whole tenure of the land had been altered. Lord Cairns had given to the tenants for life of settled estates...
...obtain a living, most of whom can only use their pen but not their hands. Many who are sent into offices descend to utter poverty, and are entirely unfit to help themselves; and if they go to the Colonies, they fail on account of their helplessness. For every vacancy for a clerk, there is a shoal of applicants. I believe that an inestimable boon would be con- ferred on this country if in all classes of society manual training were added to the school curriculum. We should then see the unhappy...
...attempt to deal with them in the way suggested. If they have been neglected in their childhood, taught no useful trade or occupation, they have no enterprize, no incentive to help themselves, and are really a curse and a burden on society. This one good thing my hon. Friend's Motion has brought out—that the root of the evil is parental neglect of children in early life. I do not, however, agree with all the statements and all the conclusions he has submitted to the House. I am inclined to concur with...
...school, but he is not responsible for his conduct and his neglect. I was glad to hear from my hon. Friend the Member for South Leicestershire (Mr. Pell), of the help that the rich people of the West End of London were giving to the poor people of the East End over this matter. I think that this is a very good sign. I have often heard of the good that the rich Jews living in the West End do for those residing in the East End. In the East End...
...scheme for the development of the agriculture of the country was to be carried out so as to yield those profits which he anticipated, and he (Mr. Salt) could not help thinking that it was rather selfish of the hon. Member to keep this great secret to himself; and he thought the House, therefore, had some cause of complaint against the hon. Member. He (Mr. Salt) had listened with great interest to the speech of the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. S. Smith); but he was afraid that the hon. Member...
...and absolutely none has been given to us by those who went out of Office. Now, they are the principal occasions of this great political crisis. My Lords, I cannot help wondering, when I see the great political transformation which has taken place, and which is typified by the change of sides in both Houses. How is it that the great Administration of Mr. Gladstone, which came into Office with a majority ranging from 100 to 130, the most powerful Administration in numbers that has ever succeeded to power in this...
...itself, and it is extremely improbable that that should be so. My Lords, I set aside all those rumours. But it has been an open secret; and I could not help observing that in certain newspapers paragraphs appeared on this subject which subsequent events proved to have been well informed. I do not know that it ever happened to such a great extent in any other Cabinet than the late Cabinet; but I only observed what everybody had observed. Then there is the evidence, however superficial, that during the last month...
...Cabinets had not yet become firmly rooted in the Constitution of the country, than to revert to the more personal references to which my noble Friend invites us. I cannot help feeling, after all that has taken place, that this talk about united faces and this call to unity under the same Leaders whom we know to have been disunited, and to have brought the foreign policy of England into most serious jeopardy because of that disunion—to call upon us to unite under the same Leaders without due guarantees would hardly...
...as are needed in this country with quite as anxious a desire as any other Party could do at the present moment. With regard to the future, I could not help observing that my noble Friend, in his speech, attempted a dangerous experiment — namely, a definition of what Liberalism is. I dissent from such a definition as he gave. He said that Liberalism meant always being at the head of any national movement—always a little ahead and never behind. Now, there is such a thing as a nation advancing into...
...made public, no doubt a great deal might be said, when the results of the inquiry were laid before the House, which had better not be stated. He could not help thinking that an inquiry of this kind should be left entirely to the Commanding Officer in Egypt, and to the Executive Authorities at home. If they acted up to their duty, he believed the officer who was more particularly concerned would not escape blame, and might even incur punishment; but it would be a somewhat serious matter, at least as...
...General Gordon himself in his recommendation that there should be a further adoption, of coloured troops. He had over and over again spoken about this matter; and he could not help thinking that a return to the old policy of 20, 30, or 40 years ago would be a very wise step. There were then three West India regiments, a Ceylon Rifle Corps, a St. Helena Corps, and the Cape Mounted Rifles, besides all the coloured troops they had in India. What number of coloured troops had they now? If hon....
...the rural districts, but it did in regard to some of the most efficient and able Volunteer Corps of the country which belonged to the large towns. He could not help thinking that something might be done to provide convenient ranges, so that the various corps might have reasonable facilities afforded them for improving their shooting. He would suggest that there should be some small grant to those Volunteers who showed a higher state of efficiency than the rest, and that for shooting up to a certain standard a certain grant...
...on the investigation which had been instituted, and carry out the plan of drilling the men with the Volunteers in the cheapest manner possible. MR. TOMLINSON said, he could not help thinking that the suggestion put forward by the hon. and gallant Baronet (Sir Arthur Hayter) with respect to putting Reserve men through their drill with the Volunteers was a valuable one, and he believed that if it were carried out it might be of advantage to the men of both Services. But there had been this difficulty felt, both with...
...to the jamming of the cartridges, he himself had had no opportunities of seeing the worst cases which seemed to have happened in the Nile Expedition; but he could not help thinking that a great deal of the jamming was due to the men themselves. When a man went into action for the first time he was excited, not unnaturally; and he had himself, not once only, but many times, seen rifles fail to throw out the cartridge cases properly, because the men in their hurry and excitement failed to use...
...he could honestly say, so far as the officers were concerned — whether military or civil, and he had had to do with both—he had always found them ready to help him with their experience. They were all very hard working; they thoroughly know their business; and if they committed mistakes they only did what all mortals, high or low, sometimes did in their lives. The Expeditions to Egypt and the Soudan had been of a novel kind. There was no doubt that the transport to that country, although it was...
...manned. Mistakes occurred in the War Office as elsewhere, because the staff was hardly sufficient for what might happen. Mistakes might be prevented by a little management—by a little extra help and aid, perhaps merely by the payment of an extra salary to a junior officer, and appointing to a responsible office one who was capable of giving assistance in time of need. Because the Departments were undermanned those mistakes were made, and the cry was heard—"Oh, the Ordnance and Store Department is utterly rotten; the boots are all bad, the...
...done to ourselves, which was hardly to have been expected of a Government whose leading Members had spoken pretty freely about the Turks in 1876 and 1877. He could not help hoping that the House would mark its sense of an act of this kind, which he did not think the reasons of so-called policy that had been alleged at all justified, by refusing the retired pay which it was proposed should be paid by the Admiralty to Hobart Pasha,. In that way, too, the House would express its respect for...
...indirectly for the greater part of their lives; and therefore it appeared rather hard that when old age crept upon such men they should not be able to receive some help from the community in the shape of medical relief, if they needed it, without losing their right to vote for the disbursers of the relief. But he did not wish to detain the House on the matter at present. He was very pleased that his Bill had been taken up by hon. Members opposite, for the reason, amongst others, that...
...clause preventing the disqualification. The hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Jesse Collings), or any other Gentleman connected with the Radical Party, did not extend to them the smallest modicum of help or sympathy. But when they got their clause into the Registration Bill , and it passed the Lords, the Radical Party suddenly woke up to the importance of the question; and what happened? When the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Christchurch (Mr. Horace Davey) introduced his Amendment in Committee on the Registration of Voters (England) Bill it was...
...of 1860 distinctly said that these Orders should be treated as Public Bills, and surely this meant that they were not to be treated as Private Bills. He could not help saying that he heartily concurred in the argument of the noble and learned Earl (the Earl of Selborne). THE EARL OF LONGFORD said, the greatest possible confusion had been caused by two Acts that had been hurriedly passed at the very end of the Session of 1883, with the very best intentions, but with unsatisfactory results —namely, the Tramways Act...
...example set by foreign nations and our own Colonies, it was well known that we continued to go on neglecting this most important work, and practically giving little or no help to the education of these unfortunate children. It was true that in England Boards of Guardians might send a child afflicted with dumbness or blindness to school, and pay, with the sanction of the Local Government Board, £20 for his maintenance; but it was entirely a question for the discretion of the Guardians whether the child should be sent or...
...that would free a great deal of the money now given in charity for a work hardly less important than that of the education of the children—namely, establishing institutions for helping those who had the misfortune to lose their sight, and in a few cases their hearing and speech, after they had attained an age beyond that at which they could be educated. There was no doubt that a vast amount of terrible suffering existed among such persons who lost their sight after the age of education was passed. They were...
...loss cost than could be done by the London board schools, He had hitherto carefully avoided saying anything about the cost of building or of sites; but he could not help thinking that a certain amount of extravagance, or, he should say, undue expenditure, took place under those heads because of the undue competition which was created between board schools and voluntary schools. This competition took place in two ways. In the first place, by the board schools lowering the fees to such an extent that the voluntary schools suffered in...
...that the chief item of expense was that of salaries. It was there that heavy expenses were incurred. He did not wish to trouble the Committee more than he could help with regard to the London School Board; but he thought he had a right to ask the Committee whether they did not think that the salaries of teachers ought to be such as to attract the educated men and women in the profession of teachers? As they could get a jerry builder to run up a house at almost any...
...staff was for the School Boards to see that they had a sufficiently large staff, and that they had teachers who were thoroughly trained to their work. He could not help alluding to one matter which had attracted and was attracting very growing attention in Scotland in connection with education. There was a feeling, and he thought there were good grounds for it, that it was absolutely necessary to separate the two Departments in London. He was sure it was not beyond the scope of the knowledge of the right hon....
...my practical conclusion is, that whether we take the returns of tons, which has been our system, or of percentages of progress, which is the French system—they do not really help us much. There are three stages in the building of a ship which cannot mislead anyone — first, when a ship is laid down; next, when a ship is launched, which shows she must have made considerable progress; and, lastly, when she is ready for sea. These are the points to which my attention has been mainly directed with respect...
...a position to afford that full information which the noble Earl the late First Lord states that he had in his breast with regard to these financial matters. I cannot help thinking that the revelations which have been made point to a very loose arrangement and great defects in the Department. It does seem extraordinary that it should take three weeks' pressing before the Head of a great Department can find out that the Department was under a liability of nearly £1,000,000 more than had been publicly stated. After the speech...
...ships out of the Channel Squadron, we should continue liable to the charge of being content with a paper Fleet. The Committee on which he served last year could not help seeing that there was room for still further inquiry as to the constitution of the Admiralty, and the administration of the Dockyards. The country certainly ought to be satisfied that steamers taken up for transport had been obtained on reasonable terms, in a favourable market, and that money's worth had been obtained for the money expended. Motion agreed to....
...referred to by the right hon. and learned Gentleman, and which was originally to cost £35,000. He wished to state, at the outset, that no one in this country could help entertaining the highest admiration for the eminent man who had made those plans. He was a Royal Academician and a most eminent architect; but he thought it would possibly be found that Mr. Pearson's antiquarian zeal had eaten up his discretion. He wished to recall to the recollection of the Committee how this matter originated. When the new Law Courts...
...Friend the Member for the City of London (Mr. Hubbard) into the wide field of subjects, not unfamiliar to the House, over which he had ranged; but he could not help feeling that he had done the previous Conservative Government an injustice in his remarks upon their endeavour to apply to the whole country the same principles in respect of valuation which were applied to the Metropolis. Had the House been allowed to adopt that proposal, considerable incidental advantage might have accrued to the Exchequer; but his right hon. Friend, instead...
...have recourse to the method of loans. Absolute necessity was the only excuse for such a policy. He never took a Party view of financial matters if he could possibly help it. It was quite right to criticize, but all Parties had a common interest, and that was to raise the necessary taxation in that manner which was most convenient and easy to every class of the community. He had merely risen in order to emphasize, as strongly as he could, what he believed to be the view of the Chancellor...
...disputed that altogether. There were a large number of cases—one or two in every Union—in which medical relief was given, not for simple destitution, but because extra medical skill and help were required beyond what it was in the power of the ordinary wage-earner to command. Might he give an instance or two? He was afraid to appeal to the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Courtney) in regard to anything connected with the humanity of the situation. Let them take the case of confinements, for instance. Did the hon. Member opposite...
...the Peabody, or other similar Companies, under, of course, proper restrictions that they shall be applied, and solely, to the purpose of erecting dwellings for the working classes. I cannot help hoping that in connection with that provision some effort may be made to obtain working-class dwellings that shall be, while still healthy and useful, somewhat cheaper in their construction than those which the Peabody Trustees have erected. I believe that the Peabody buildings have done an enormous amount of good; but they have not struck at the lowest and most...
...was felt that their evidence could not be relied upon without the evidence of this more respectable informer, who only came in at the very last moment, and with whose help the conviction was obtained. The prisoners were sentenced to long terms of penal servitude, with the exception of one, who was sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment, owing to the extenuating circumstance that during the time of the No-Pent Manifesto he had paid his rent. Some time after the trials in September, 1884, a week was set aside for special devotions...
...another clergyman. She threw herself, or endeavoured to throw herself, on her knees before them, and acknowledged that she knew her husband's evidence was concocted, and that she induced and helped him to concoct it; and that, feeling miserable at the result in the sentence of penal servitude upon so many innocent persons, she could not rest till she told her guilt. She signed a written declaration to that effect, and subsequently Patrick Cole himself also signed a declaration to the effect that he had been induced to give his evidence...
...It is well known that hon. Members opposite are very clever in matters connected with electioneering. I often wish we on this side were half as clever; but I cannot help thinking that a great mercy has befallen the country in that Gentlemen opposite are now in their proper places, and that this electioneering process, in which they are so skilled, is confined to them in Opposition, and that they are not with divided Councils governing the country as responsible Ministers of the Crown. As I have said, the first grievance...
...the creation of Naval Volunteer Corps. Everyone must have seen with satisfaction the start made in this matter in London, Liverpool, and Bristol. Her Majesty's Government feel that the best help they can give to this movement, independently of cooperation and assistance in smaller matters, will be to contribute in some way to the maintenance of the men of the Naval Volunteers. I am not authorized by the First Lord of the Admiralty to state the exact way in which he proposes to contribute to their maintenance; but he accepts the...
...the great War from 1798 to 1810, the seafaring population contributed 12,000 men in England, headed by 92 captains, and 12,000 men in Ireland, who formed the Sea Fencibles, and helped to make the country secure; and I am not without hope that the same spirit among the same population will render equal service in the future. But, after all, this is only part of a very great question—the naval position of this country. The nation is manifesting great anxiety as to its Fleet. It is asking whether the ships are...
...to the opponents and the promoters. He hoped that some definite rule would be laid down to prevent such misunderstanding in future. THE MARQUESS OF SALISBURY said, he could not help feeling that it was very unfortunate that an Act of Parliament under which this misunderstanding had arisen had been read in a different sense from what they were now told was the right one. It seemed to him that they had simply a choice of injustice—injustice to the promoters, or injustice to the opponents of the Bill; but he thought...
...a suitable and perfectly safe building should be specially provided for this most interesting collection, which, in case of its destruction, it would be impossible to replace; and I cannot help thinking that if such a permanent home were found for it the collection would much more rapidly increase. At all events, I shall during the Recess consider the question of a proper site and a proper building for such a purpose; so that, if possible, some proposal on the subject may be made to Parliament next year....
...any other Department either in Ireland or in this country. When he came to consider the character of the Votes submitted by the Irish Board of Works he could not help being struck by the fact that almost all the money asked for was to be spent on works that were of no permanent advantage to the country. It would be seen that the money was expended upon Constabulary barracks to any extent. Large sums of money were also voted in connection with the navigation levels of the different river valleys,...
...in the interests of the ratepayers; and seeing that the Company had not felt it right to accede to the proposals of the Metropolitan Board, or in any way to help them, he hoped the House would throw out the Bill, which he certainly did not think was worthy of a second reading. MR. M'COAN said, he thought that very scant justice had, by some of the speakers who had already addressed the House, been done to the promoters of the Bill. He (Mr. M'Coan) was satisfied that no injustice had...
...at times such as these special duties, and I have good reason to believe that this is recognized by the Directors of the Bank, and that they are ready to help in promoting the very desirable object referred to by the hon. Member, so far as may be possible consistently with due regard to the safety of the Bank. MR. GRAY asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether his attention has been called to the 1st Geo. 4, chap. 39, intituled— An Act for the assistance of Trade and Manufactures in...
...results from the step which the House was taking with so light a heart. SIR FREDERICK MILNER said, that after the speeches which the House had heard he could not help feeling that in supporting the measure of the Government they undertook a very serious responsibility. The hon. Members for West Norfolk and South Leicestershire and Liskeard were famous for the firmness with which they expressed their convictions upon all topics. They spoke from the heart their honest convictions, regardless of their own or their Party's interests. It seemed a curious...
...one time or another opposed the Bill, he himself intended to vote for it? Well, he confessed that his reason was a more or less sentimental one. He could not help feeling that if a felon who had been discharged from gaol was to have the privilege of a vote it would be rather hard that an honest poor man, who only received temporary relief during sickness, should not be allowed the same privilege. He did not think that if the Bill were passed it would prevent a working man continuing...
...greater reason, in his opinion, for not altering the law as it at present stood. He had received that morning a letter from a clergyman, who wrote thus— Will it help you to have my experience as chairman for many years of a rural Board of Guardians, and one who has not played at the work? I have no hesitation in saying that medical relief is not only the most dangerous form of relief (everyone knows that), but also the most unnecessary. In this district—and it is, or ought to he,...
...considered themselves bound to hold on to the Bill, although there was so little to commend it to the acceptation of the House. For his own part, he could not help believing that this measure was one of the results of being on that side of the House—in Office without a majority. He did not believe for a moment that the Bill was supported by the good sense and intelligence of his right hon. Friends on the Front Bench. No doubt, they had acceded to Office under circumstances of difficulty; but,...
...been summoned to Cirencester and compelled in consequence to lose a day's work. This and similar reasons were the reasons why pauperism had decreased. MR. LABOUCHERE said, he could not help expressing his respectful sympathy with Her Majesty's Government, for, whether they might be good men or not, they were certainly men who were struggling with difficulties. He did not think there was another instance of a Government which, in the first fortnight of its existence, had been so utterly discredited as the present. A fortnight ago they had a perfect...
...medical relief; but he asked whether, considering the rapid change which had come over the House—he did not attribute any motives for that change—and considering the bias which could not help to weigh with the House at that moment, it would not be better to defer the permanent settlement of the question—to pass this clause for two years, as suggested by his hon. Friend (Mr. Acland), and then to have a strong Committee to decide what precautions and safeguards might be attached to the disqualification? The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. A....
...measure, and if, on inquiry, they found there was a better way of managing the thing, or that the provision could have certain safeguards attached to it. He could not help thinking, judging from the tone of the right hon. Gentleman's remarks, that he had considerable doubt in his mind as to the wisdom of the change except as a matter of making a concession to popular demand. They ought to know a great deal more than they did about this subject, and he would urge on the Government and the...
...could not draw the line between medicine and food. If once they gave a vote to people who received food from the parish, he did not see how they could help giving it in all cases of outdoor relief. As the Bill was drawn, there was a clear and well-defined line, and if they defaced it they would have to go outside medical relief. That, he confessed, he should greatly regret. He would just give one illustration of the cases in which medical officers might be called upon. Take the case...
...were absolutely disheartening the thrifty and provident. In the name of the working men of the country, he asked the Committee not to accept the Amendment. MR. CHAMBERLAIN I cannot help thinking that the distinction that the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) says we are going to establish is really not one of principle, but of words. The hon. and learned Gentleman says, with perfect truth, that when relief and medical extras are given they are given by the order of the Boards of Guardians. Yes; but they are...
...proposed, "That the Bill be read a second time upon Thursday."—( Mr. Digby. ) MR. HEALY said, he objected to the second reading being taken on Thursday. He could not help thinking that this was an attempt to smuggle the measure through the House. If the present suggestion were adopted, there would be no opportunity of blocking the Bill, or even of seeing it, for it could not be printed. Motion, by leave, withdrawn. Bill to be read a second time upon Monday next....
...Order of the Day for the Third Reading read. Moved, "That the Bill be now read 3ª"—( The Earl of Beauchamp. ) THE EARL OF SELBORNE said, ho could not help observing the frequency of the recurrence of these individual Bills. In his opinion, it would be much better to deal with the eases of marriages in unlicensed buildings, which this Bill, with respect to one such building, was intended to ratify, by a general law, than by such a Bill as this. THE LORD CHANCELLOR (Lord HALSRURY) said, he could...
...the landlord of the country; and that danger cannot arise unless this Bill succeeds to an extent and on a scale that none of us at present anticipate. I cannot help asking why it is that such dangerous experiments as this have become necessary in Ireland? Let me direct your Lordships' attention to a few facts about which there neither can nor should be any controversy, and not to matters of opinion. The first is this— that the ownership of agricultural land in Ireland—I say agricultural land, because, of course, the...
...the poorer class of tenants. It applies to the holders of farms of £3,000 rental, and many of them are very intelligent men, and men of some means. I cannot help thinking that if my suggestion were acted on, and these men were enabled to become unlimited owners, it would do much to restore the value and saleability of land in Ireland. You would not have to bribe men to buy the land, and the article, in short, would be restored to its pristine value—the value which it has in every...
...expressing himself too strongly on the general merits of the Bill, although he was not so enamoured of it as some of his noble Friends opposite, he yet could not help thinking that what the noble Earl (the Earl of Minto) now proposed was very objectionable. What it amounted to was this—that no one but a Scotsman was to be considered fit to administer Scottish Education. He (Viscount Cranbrook) wished to know whether the noble Earl would like to exclude Scotsmen from interfering with, or exercising any influence on, English Education;...
...hon. and learned Gentleman had expressed himself very strongly against certain lines of conduct which he said had taken place, and he had declared that, so far as be could help it, such conduct should not take place in time to come. But the right hon. and learned Gentleman had gone further, and had, unfortunately, declared that in his opinion his Predecessors had acted in times past as it would be fitting for him to act in the future. He (Mr. Biggar) considered it a mistake on the part of the...
...right, others believed that he was wrong, but all believed something. In like manner the right hon. and learned Gentleman must have formed an. opinion on the matter—he could not help himself. Well, he would ask the right hon. and learned Gentleman what was he going to do to follow up the impression he must have formed in his own mind? Did he not think it was his duty to ascertain whether or not there was any foundation for the statements which had been made? There was plenty of evidence before...
...that which he had much better take from the rates. When a man was struck down with sudden necessity he had better go to the fund to which he had helped to subscribe, and out of which, with the help of his subscriptions, others had been relieved, than go to ask for individual doles from people of the neighbourhood. He believed that to do so would lower his self-respect and independence much more than by going to the rates. In these circumstances, he certainly intended to vote for the hon. Member's...
...rates. When a man was struck down with sudden necessity he had better go to the fund to which he had helped to subscribe, and out of which, with the help of his subscriptions, others had been relieved, than go to ask for individual doles from people of the neighbourhood. He believed that to do so would lower his self-respect and independence much more than by going to the rates. In these circumstances, he certainly intended to vote for the hon. Member's Amendment. He hoped the House would not take too...
...prevent double taxation must be maintained; but he should certainly deal freely with the others. These included landowning Departments of the Government and the Ecclesiastical Commissioners; and he could not help feeling that the susceptibilities of the officials connected with these Corporations and their objection to taxation counted for a good deal. There was confusion of thought as between Death Duties and Property and Income Tax. This Bill professed to be a Death Duty Bill; but, to all intents and purposes, it was an Income Tax Bill. An important Petition presented...
...5 per cent would not be far from the mark; but as Corporate property did not pay Probate Duty, and was very largely composed of real estate, he could not help thinking that this was rather a severe measure. He certainly could have no sympathy with the Bill so long as absurd exemptions were retained in it, and he would feel inclined to vote for a reduction of the charge on Corporate property until the whole of it was included. Instead of attempting to insert the thin edge of the wedge...
...foreign and colonial states and dividends of foreign and colonial companies. That was to say, the Government considered they ought to employ a new set of collectors. He could not help thinking it would be very unwise to pass this clause. He was quite willing to believe, in fact he knew, that most bankers would give every facility to assist the Government as far as they could in the collection of the Income Tax; but any interference between the banker and his customers, in order to ascertain what transactions passed through...
...bankers as a class should be picked out and, because they happened to have a large amount of money, be made collectors of taxes. No doubt, voluntarily, the bankers would help the Government as much as they could. They would have no objection to lending their assistance; but they decidedly objected to being made tax collectors by law, and to having a penalty inflicted upon them for neglecting to act in that capacity. Question put. The Committee divided: —Ayes 135; Noes 20: Majority 115.—(Div. List, No. 244.) THE CHANCELLOR OF THE...
...avenue to the University; but there was a provision made that any scholar showing a particular talent for classics should be sent to the High School. There were bursaries to help such scholars there. The expenditure proposed for this school altogether would be £4,700. It was not, as had been stated by a Circular which he held in his hand, to be placed in a lower position than any public State-aided school. It was to be a very different kind of school from any ordinary State-aided school, and in some respects...
...been withdrawn. He did not think that the promoters of the Bill had any cause of complaint, and, while wishing to avoid the use of strong language, he could not help saying that their action in assenting to the introduction of the clause before the Committee, and then taking the first opportunity to get rid of it, was hardly straightforward. If their Lordships decided to reject the clause on the ground that it was against public policy, he hoped that they would recommit the Bill, in order that those who opposed...
...the effect that punishment should not be inflicted when sufficient and reasonable precautions had been taken to prevent injury being done to another cable. LORD BRAMWELL said, he could not help thinking that this was a very dangerous piece of legislation. It appeared to him, however, that the Amendment of the noble Duke was an improvement on the original clause, and that the Amendment of the noble Marquess was an improvement on that of the noble Duke; but he himself intended to suggest a third Amendment to the effect that this...
...doubtless he would be selected as the next city Governor—assuming, of course, the statements of the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Deasy) regarding him to be correct. No one could help feeling pain at the sad circumstances of the death of the man referred to by the hon. Member for Sligo (Mr. Sexton). He at once admitted that if drunken persons wore to be confined in police barracks, adequate cell accommodation was not merely desirable, but necessary. In many police barracks there was great want of accommodation, and that was owing...
...was not brought up at the police court and charged with drunkenness as an ordinary citizen or peasant would have been; and he (Mr. Sexton) could not, under those circumstances, help reflecting that in connection with any further legislative measures which might be considered necessary for Ireland the Government would recognize the fact that those laws were best which were best administered. All the Government had to do to make the Constabulary Force effective and remove its unpopularity was to teach each man in it that the countenance of authority and...
...he should like to know, was the object of such a proceeding—why were police sent down to local meetings to the annoyance of people taking' part in them? It only helped to add to the expenditure; it only helped to add to the sums the Committee were asked to vote year after year. When he (Mr. Molloy) had challenged the Predecessor of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary upon this subject, the right hon. Gentleman had stated that the police had no right to indulge in this sort of occupation,...
...of such a proceeding—why were police sent down to local meetings to the annoyance of people taking' part in them? It only helped to add to the expenditure; it only helped to add to the sums the Committee were asked to vote year after year. When he (Mr. Molloy) had challenged the Predecessor of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary upon this subject, the right hon. Gentleman had stated that the police had no right to indulge in this sort of occupation, and that instructions had been issued to them...
...the independence of the poor, was given up by the Leaders of the two Parties merely from political motives, and in the face of a General Election. He could not help thinking that both Parties were mistaken. He was not at all sure that this amendment of the law was as popular as it was supposed to be. The great majority in the constituencies were ratepayers; they had to look to their selfish interests; and it was at least possible that they might view with alarm what they might regard as...
...argument which applied to medicine applied equally to food. The decent working man who wanted medicine or who fell out of work would be trusted by the shopkeeper and receive help in other ways. In this matter there was no real distinction between the rural and the urban labourer. He agreed that this was not strictly a matter of political economy, but that science had to deal with the question of the reasonableness of State relief to poverty and with the safeguards which ought to be provided against the abuse of...
...since then he had absolutely defied the authority of his superior—the High Commissioner of South Africa. That being the effect of the proceedings of Sir Charles Warren, he could not help thinking that the Papers laid upon the Table showed an extreme want of discretion on the part of that officer. He had asserted his authority in South Africa with a very high hand, as was shown by the transactions which had occurred in regard to the death of a man who lost his life in South Africa some years previously,...
...to the submarine mine defence of our commercial ports, and to form in connection with this corps Volunteer Submarine Mining Companies. This system has already been successfully tested by the help of Colonel Palmer, M.P., of the 1st Newcastle and Durham Engineer Volunteers; and it has consequently been decided to form four Volunteer Companies (as an increase to the establishment of the regiments) for the defence of the Tyne, Mersey, Clyde, and Severn—for the Tyne, the 1st Newcastle and Durham Engineer Volunteers; for the Mersey, the 1st Lancashire Engineer Volunteers; for...
...was making the Army Estimates responsible for Naval armaments. It certainly did seem to be an anomaly, and an anomaly that it was difficult to justify; and he could not help admitting that it would be better that the Admiralty should be responsible for, and should supply themselves with, their own armaments. [Captain AYLMER: It is only a question of accounts.] The hon. and gallant Gentleman behind him said it was only a question of accounts; but, in his opinion, it had unfortunately been treated too long as merely a matter...
...was that such a change could be made, and that the Admiralty might treat the War Office just as it treated the contractors with whom, it dealt. He could not help thinking that the advantage of that would be very great. Of course, the statement that had been made by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for War (Mr. W. H. Smith) was extremely satisfactory to him, because it was really the programme of the late Government, both as regarded armaments, submarine stores, and fortifications. But there was one...
...they would be better able to appreciate it and estimate its full value tomorrow than they were today, hearing it for the first time. But one thing he could not help noticing—and he had ventured to interrupt the right hon. Gentleman with regard to it—and that was, that though the figures of his statement had amounted to something like £2,250,000, in addition to a sum of £645,000 which, he understood, it was proposed to spend during the next three or four years, not a single 1 d. of that sum was...
...women will not seek admission till they feel absolutely compelled, and many who come in are sad wrecks under 20 years of age. The usual routine of work, such as helping in the laundry, etc., as carried out before, has had to be abandoned, the patients being too ill to do it, and charwomen are obliged to be employed instead. Indeed, could these zealous but mistaken people see as we see the fruits of what they have accomplished in the withdrawal of the police, they would be compelled to admit how...
...been very considerably diminished; and if the Acts were not revived, the same results, which existed before they were brought into operation, would follow. MR. WHITBREAD said, he could not help feeling moved by the feeling accents in which the right hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Cavendish Bentinck) had taken leave of the House. He deprecated the discussion, however, especially as the hon. Member for Devonport (Sir. Puleston) had admitted that nothing could result from it. As far as he understood the present position, it was this—that...
...£14,000 was saved to the country, they thought it not an extravagant thing that some portion of that saving should be devoted to meeting their demands, which he could not help thinking were just. All these poor old men, many of whom were spending their last few days in destitution, asked was that there might be some simple inquiry instituted. They did not ask for anything more definite. They were quite content that some inquiry should be made into their case. He would reiterate the hope, on sitting down, that the...
...hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Taunton (Sir Henry James), had received communications from Returning Officers of nearly every county in England respecting this matter; and he could not help thinking that there was a great deal in the case made by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Warton). In the first place, the number of polling places would be largely increased in the counties; in the next place, the hours of polling were extended, the result being that it would be essential that, in many districts, the presiding officer...
...the last few years, examinations had been held on the island for entrance into the Fencible Artillery, and for certain appointments in the dockyards and military prisons. He could not help hoping, however, that in the course of time the difficulties might be smoothed away; and, so far as the Civil Service Commissioners were concerned, they would be glad to lend a helping hand to the Colonial Office in carrying out the laudable object of the noble Earl opposite. He entirely agreed that the subject was one of great interest; and...
...however, that in the course of time the difficulties might be smoothed away; and, so far as the Civil Service Commissioners were concerned, they would be glad to lend a helping hand to the Colonial Office in carrying out the laudable object of the noble Earl opposite. He entirely agreed that the subject was one of great interest; and if a concession could be made it would be of the very greatest importance. THE UNDEE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE COLONIES (The Earl of DUNRAVEN) said, that with the remarks of...
...of Allegiance that— I, A. B., do swear that I will be faithful, and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, her heirs and successors, according to law. So help me God. And I do not regard the words of the Oath, as some hon. Members regard them, as words of an idle and meaningless character. As a member of the Roman Catholic Church, I regard the taking of the Oath as a most solemn act, and I will take the description of how I regard the words of the...
...you find that the yearly cost to the nation of the Queen's Colleges is nearly £38,000, or more than £12,500 each. University College, on the other hand, has no direct help from the public funds in any form; but the Senate of the Royal University requires that 14 of its Fellows should, in addition to their primary duty of acting as University Examiners, give their services in teaching at University College. This may be looked upon as an indirect endowment, equivalent, at the utmost, to £3,000 a-year, but given in an...
...lavish grants to the Queen's Colleges in Galway and Cork, while they denied to University College, Dublin, a chance of existence? They could not say that they were debarred from helping it; because, while the State endowment to the Queen's Colleges amounted to £38,000, or more than £12,500 each, there was an indirect endowment of University College of about £3,000 a-year. Trinity College was, practically, a denominational College, and it received £110,000. In view of these facts, Irish Members considered their present demand an extremely moderate one. They asked no more...
...University College, Dublin, if that College went down, they might, before long, have to regret the result which might be brought about by their refusal to extend to it a helping hand. MR. SYNAN said, he should not again describe the various attempts which had been made by different Governments, Conservative as well as Liberal, to settle this question. The statement of the hon. Member for Longford (Mr. Justin M'Carthy) having been followed and amplified by the hon. Member for Sligo (Mr. Sexton), he should confine himself to the narrow issue...
...could not be conceded that Trinity College was not worked, to some extent, on denominational lines. The College for which he and his hon. Friends now made a claim for help was open, as far it could be, to people of all political and religious opinions. It was competent for anyone to avail themselves of its services, and still, at the same time, not be actual students of the University College. But Trinity College, which had an enormous grant of about £60,000 a-year, leaving out of the calculation the interest of...
...the wishes of the great majority of the people. He wished to put it to the Government that in the interests of education itself it was all-important that some additional help ought to be given to an institution which it was admitted had, from the slenderest resources, conferred the greatest benefit on Ireland. He referred to the institution in Stephen's Green. It had been conferring the greatest benefits on the country for the last 30 years, and for the last few years it had been kept alive upon resources which he...
...vote money under such an unsatisfactory state of affairs for further expenditure on the Queen's Colleges, the least they could expect from the Government was that it should extend a helping hand to an institution which had done far better work, and which to his mind had produced the only good effect which the Royal University had as yet achieved, in having shown that, at all events, the ability lay on the Catholic side, while the endowments were, unfortunately, always on the other. It was utterly impossible to defend a state...
...came before the authorities of Mountjoy Prison, and he was removed to another place of detention, and seeing that doubts existed as to his insanity, he (Mr. Sexton) could not help thinking that those who had released him had incurred great responsibility. The first thing the man's daughter said, when she heard of her mother's death, was—"Why did they let my father out of prison to come and murder my poor mother?" It was perfectly apparent that the man ought to have been sent to a lunatic asylum. The demand he...
...their children. At another place in the county of Cork the model school was attended by a good many of the Catholic population for the reason that they could not help it, its appliances being superior to those of the parish school, with which, in consequence, it entered into unfair rivalry. In most particulars the description given by his hon. Friend the Member for Carlow (Mr. Dawson) was absolutely correct. He (Colonel Colthurst) hoped the Government would give effect to the recommendation of the Committee, and he joined his hon. Friend...
...in this important matter of the transmission of the mails, its very poverty ought to be an additional reason why the public Revenue should be applied to give it a helping hand. Somebody must lose, and he did not think it was fair to ask the Railway Company to lose. The Railway Company were willing to give an improved service at the lowest rate that would not involve loss to the shareholders; and he did not see why, under those circumstances, such a Department as the Post Office, which made an...
...legislation of Lord Palmerston. It can only be brought about by the mechanism of local bodies. The householders will not submit to interference except from local bodies which they have helped to form, which they know how to reach, which they are qualified to influence. The leading feature of the Bill is to enable Vestries, through their bye-laws under the direction of the Home Office, to make the evil which prevails illegal for the future. It may be said that, however just the power, it will not be exerted. Possibly it...
...it clearly and distinctly before the House. He entertained the highest opinion of the late Lord Chancellor, who had been the chief promoter of this Bill; but he could not help remembering that the noble and learned Earl acted as counsel for the gentleman who claimed the Earldom. This was unfortunate, although he did not mean to say I that it influenced him to the slightest extent. No one had yet stated the grounds on which the Bill was based, and in these circumstances he thought it would be most injudicious...
...the right hon. Gentleman had not had the strength to resist the proposal of the hon. Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. H. H. Fowler). MR. EDWARD CLARKE said, he could not help joining in the protest of the late Solicitor General against this clumsy mode of dealing with the subject. He was greatly surprised at the speech of the Home Secretary. The Committee ought to be guided by the Home Secretary; but, instead of giving them his advice, the right hon. Gentleman waited until several speeches had been delivered, and then he...
...for life would operate as a deterrent? Even in penal servitude there might be some hope of a convict becoming a better man; but would flogging, in the slightest degree, help to humanize him? If flogging were not a deterrent, if it would not prevent crime, was it worth while to be revengeful, and to subject a man to this punishment? It was a retrograde motion. They had to deal with their criminal offenders, as with their lunatics, on different principles from those formerly recognized. They used to ill-treat and torture...
...that the object of the clause was to protect very young girls against corruption, and to preserve young children from falling into snares which led to their ruin. If any help or assistance were given to those who were the seducers of these young girls, and they were thereby encouraged in criminal practices, the object of the section would be entirely defeated. In an ordinary case of rape there was no provision that would exempt a man from the consequences of his acts, because the person with whom he committed the...
...opposed to giving the police the power of instituting proceedings against these women. It would be placing an unfair temptation in the way of the police; and he could not help suspecting that those who had the control of the Force must feel very great doubt and hesitation with regard to putting these powers in their hands. He was altogether opposed to the police instituting anything against brothels and prostitutes. MR. GRAY said, he did not wish to pursue the discussion at that moment; but he ventured to say that there...
...defended his Housing of the Working Classes Bill , on the ground that it is the duty of the State to provide, or by selling property below its value, to help to provide houses for those in its employ. Where, let me ask, will he draw the line—will he house the Foreign Office clerks, and all others in Government employment, including the tidewaiters and police? And, if not, why not? What otherwise does he propose, but the most glaring class legislation. Now, my Lords, I believe all this to be a...
...a view to an immoral purpose, a safeguard might be provided against the evils which had been pointed out by the late Home Secretary (Sir William Harcourt). He could not help thinking that this evil existed, and he would be glad to learn from the Home Secretary (Sir R. Assheton Cross) whether he was informed by the police of its existence. He (Mr. Reid) would vote with his right hon. Friend (Mr. Stansfeld); but he trusted that no hon. Member would suppose he did so in the belief that the Medical...
...was given to a defendant to give evidence, and he did not do so, the conclu- sion to be drawn was that he was in the wrong. He could not help thinking that in cases where the evidence of a small child was taken, the statement of the prisoner himself would be of value. Where guilty he would be likely to say nothing—so that the provision would enable the innocent man to get off, and aid the conviction of the guilty. With regard to the Proviso— No person so charged, being...
...from having their educational system under one Head. They found, from the evidence of past Vice Presidents of the Council, that being in charge of Scotch education had been a help to them in the administration of English education; and they had evidence from teachers of the best standing that the education of Scotland had profited greatly by the familiarity they had—through their connection with the Education Department—with the progress of education in England. While he felt strongly that any proposal to transfer education from the Education Department was to be...
...the Scotch Secretary if he had to attend to the affairs of the whole country. There was another important matter—namely, the health question, involved in this; and he could not help expressing his surprise that his right hon. Friend should pooh-pooh a Bill which would create a Minister for Health. He reminded the House that this Bill was the effect of a compromise, and that it was introduced into the House of Lords in a much stronger form. As he could not get the whole of what he would have liked,...
...not necessary for a man to labour every day in the week. He (Mr. O'Shea) had considerable experience in various parts of the West of Ireland; and he could not help thinking that unless some Amendment of this kind were accepted the Bill would benefit very few men. It might possibly be that the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Sexton) went too far; but, at the same time, it was perfectly evident that the clause, as it now stood, did not go far enough. Could not the Government propose something...
...one-half are under suitable instruction; that, while State aid is given towards the education of the children of the criminal classes as well as of the general population, no Government help is afforded to the deaf and dumb; and, whether the Government will arrange for an inquiry into the subject by Royal Commission, as has been done in relation to the blind, and in accordance with what is understood to have been the intention of the late Government, as intimated in the reply of the late Vice President to the question...
...he wishes to do so. For the rest I will only say that, judging by public indications and appearances, the Irish landowners are looking, more than the Irish tenants, for help from a measure of this kind; and I cannot help thinking that their attitude is a wise one, and that if they had adopted this attitude some years ago, however much worse it might have been for the tenants, it certainly would not have been any the worse for themselves. Taking the whole case as it stands, looking at the...
...only say that, judging by public indications and appearances, the Irish landowners are looking, more than the Irish tenants, for help from a measure of this kind; and I cannot help thinking that their attitude is a wise one, and that if they had adopted this attitude some years ago, however much worse it might have been for the tenants, it certainly would not have been any the worse for themselves. Taking the whole case as it stands, looking at the Bill merely as experimental, involving only the expenditure of a...
...old Landed Estates Court. He admitted that it was a Court fully competent to deal with this question; but without, in any way, speaking to its disparagement, he could not help feeling that the measure would not be carried out as well, if left to that Court, as if it were entrusted to the Special Commissioners who would be appointed under the Bill. The Judges and officers of the Landed Estates Court were in the habit of trying large cases; and it was not to be expected that they, who were...
...would have to deal. But in that, as in other respects, he looked upon the Bill more as a first sketch than as a complete Constitution; and he could not help believing that further legislation would be required, and that the outline contained in that measure would have hereafter to be filled up and developed in various particulars. Question put, and agreed to. Bill considered in Committee. (In the Committee.) Clauses 1 to 14, inclusive, agreed to. Clause 15 (Matters subject to legislative authority of Council). MR. BRYCE said, he wished,...
...by some hon. Gentlemen that it was simply a matter of administration; but it seemed to him to have a much wider bearing; and he confessed that he could not help looking upon the proposal with a considerable amount of apprehension. For his part he opposed the clause, because he feared it might prove "the little reft in the lute" which would introduce discord, and destroy the harmony between different portions of the Empire which they ought, by every means in their power, to promote. He, therefore, ox-pressed a sincere hope...
...think it an important one, but because he thought it so very important that it was impossible to expect that it would be accepted at this stage. He could not help feeling, however, that the Scotch Secretary, as appointed under the Bill, might, after all, turn out to be not so effective a Minister as the people of Scotland generally expected. If that was the case, it would be on account of the absence of a clause of this kind, and the very distinct saving there was of all the rights...
...distance. The steam trawlers had no sails, therefore he thought the numbers should be painted on the funnels. It would be a great advantage to fishermen, inasmuch as it would help them to identify vessels which did them damage. Amendment proposed, In page 2, line 34, after the word "ground," to insert the words "on the funnel twelve inches from the top, and."—( Mr. Marjoribanks. ) Amendment agreed to. MR. WILLIAMSON proposed to insert, after "officers," in page 3, line 5, "or officers of the Fishery Board." Amendment proposed, in page...
...they were prepared to do their best to intervene by the suppression of such practices as were now prevalent in that country, and to stand by the persons who might help to put them down. As to the use of the kourbash, the late Government had often been interrogated on the subject, and they said they had reason to believe that its use had very much diminished in Egypt. So long as he himself held his present position, he should endeavour to avoid any answer that would mislead the House. If...
...glad to perceive that today the hon. Baronet had changed his mind, and was now in a position to hear him, and f-peak himself on the subject. He could not help remarking that the hon. Baronet's course of conduct since the publication of this letter was, to say the least, singularly unsatisfactory, if not of a suspicious character. If the hon. Baronet never wrote a letter of that description nothing would be easier than for him to say so over his own name. Instead of that there appeared on Friday a...
...muse of history must have smiled as he recorded the fact that the author of Vaticanism and the other pamphlets was the very man to appeal to the Vatican to help him in doing his own work of governing Ireland. What was the main thesis of these pamphlets. What was the principal argument of those brilliant writings against the Pope if it were not that he was a foreign potentate interfering in the internal affairs of other countries; and yet here is the author of these same pamphlets calling on that...
...He (Sir George Campbell) had heard a good deal about that before; but when he came to the figures that had been laid before them that day, he could not help remarking that the whole increase of £2,000,000 found to have arisen in 10 years was due to the increase in Public Works alone. The net increase on those works was £2,000,000. THE SECRETARY OF STATE (Lord RANDOLPH CHURCHILL) The amount charged as increase of Revenue on Pub- lic Works is £566,000. The two must be taken together. SIR GEOEGE CAMPBELL...
...upon the increase of the population. It was found difficult to estimate the population; and the Corporation went to the Local Government Board to get a Provisional Order which should help them on this point. The arrangement come to was that they should take the Census of 1881, and add for each subsequent year one-tenth of the increase that took place between the years 1871 and 1881. If now the House accepted the Amendment, they would upset every Local Act which these townships had obtained. They entered into a bargain to...
...the outlying townships an additional supply of water on condition that they gave a fair price for it, no one could object to it. With every disposition to give them help in obtaining what they sought, what he objected to was the contention that a Bill of this kind, which had nothing to do with the supply of water, but only the ascertaining of the population, should be considered a fair opportunity to compel the Dublin Corporation to give them better terms than those already agreed upon as regarded the supply...
...substantive one. MR. EDWARD CLARKE said, he should support the original Amendment, and oppose the extension of it suggested by the hon. Member for Bedford (Mr. Whitbread). He could not help thinking that to allow a child other than the complainant to give evidence otherwise than upon oath would be a source of serious danger to the accused. SIR HENRY JAMES said, he thought the feeling of hon. Members was rather in favour of the proposal of his hon. Friend (Mr. Whitbread); and he would withdraw his subsection in favour of...
...they appear to imagine that those doctrines may be questioned, and, as it were, to doubt their power of defending them. We desire, in the name of the nation, the help of our political adversaries in this matter, and if they do not give it they will be wanting in their duty to their country and their Queen. I wish, Sir, to ask whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer is thus correctly reported; and, further, if he will lay on the Table of this House the Correspondence which has passed between...
...it was high time something was done, and clone promptly. Although the measure was not a very large one, and would not remedy every grievance, for men must, after all, help themselves, it would yet do something in the direction of ameliorating the condition of the people who were living in a state of degradation and poverty; and, at all events, it would show that the Legislature was willing to help the people so far as legislation could effect that object. It was on that ground that he submitted the Bill...
...of ameliorating the condition of the people who were living in a state of degradation and poverty; and, at all events, it would show that the Legislature was willing to help the people so far as legislation could effect that object. It was on that ground that he submitted the Bill con- fidently to the favourable consideration of the House. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by moving the second reading of the Bill. Motion made, and Question proposed, "That the Bill be now read a second time."—( Sir R. Assheton Cross....
...those principles were violated, it was likely that more harm than good would be done. This Bill simply pottered about with a few trumpery little remedies, and he could not help viewing it as it stood with a good deal of suspicion. During the last 20 years a great improvement had taken place in the social condition of the working classes, and in existing circumstances it was not of so much importance to do something as to do the right thing. In dealing with a great question like this he thought...
...he was also aware that the part of a Cassandra was not a gracious nor a popular one either on the stage or off of it; but he could not help expressing his doubts and misgivings, after the experience he had obtained, as to whether the Bill would achieve the objects which it had in view, and, if it did achieve them, whether they would not be purchased at too dear a price. The principles on which the Bill was based appeared to him to be fraught with novelty. Almost for...
...utmost sincerity, that he hoped and desired that it might be so. Nothing would give him greater pleasure than to find that the misgiving and doubt which he could not help feeling as to the expediency of the Bill, and as to the precedents set by its provisions, were falsified. If the Bill became a success, and it were a means of establishing, with justice to all parties, and with justice to the State, which meant the people of the United Kingdom generally, a peasant proprietary in Ireland, and that peasant...
...three years further than any other country in the world. He trusted that the Bill would produce the good results to which their Lordships looked forward; but he could not help thinking that, by making the HOLMES of the poor brighter and more cheerful, and decency and morality more possible in those HOLMES, they would effect more than by any Draconian legislation of this nature. LORD MOUNT-TEMPLE said, that he could not agree with the noble Earl that the publicity given to these criminal practices had not influenced this Bill. This...
...interest of the public; but it awakened in those who cared for this odious subject the earnest desire for a more effective and righteous law. The Bill was launched without help from any utterance of public opinion. No breeze of public favour stiffened its sails; it got no welcome in the other House, but met with the cold shoulder. When revolting facts of horrible criminal cruelties on defenceless girls and young children were scattered widely abroad, the compassion and consciences of persons of right feeling were so roused that the Bill...
...Chancellor of the Exchequer gave them an answer, he was sure he would give them a candid one, even if it were against himself. He (Mr. Hopwood) himself could not help thinking that there could be no doubt at all in the matter, and that it was most assuredly contentious Business. Yet the Ministry had promised that nothing with even the flavour of contentious Business should be brought on during the rest of the Session. As he understood it, a compromise had been offered—that the sites should be sold "for a...
...Secretary (Sir R. Assheton Cross) was speaking on this subsection yesterday, he spoke of it as if it applied only to Vestries in the Metropolis. He (Mr. Hollond) could not help thinking that when this subsection was drawn the draftsman had in his mind the difficulty experienced in inducing Vestries to carry out Torrens's Acts. If that was so, there was nothing whatever in the subsection which limited it to the Metropolis. Amendment proposed, to leave out Subsection (2.)—( Mr. Hollond. ) Question proposed, "That the subsection stand part of the...
...would ask them if they would put the opinions of those two Gentlemen against the opinions of all the Irish Members? While the Irish Members were doing their best to help them they were still obstinate in their refusal; and all be could say was that, as far as his county was concerned, they were simply cutting the tenants in that county out of all the benefits contained in the Bill. Motion made, and Question put, "That the said Clause be added to the Bill." COLONEL KING-HARMAN (speaking seated, with head...
..."That those words be there inserted." MR. SEXTON said, this appeared to carry out, so far as it went, the understanding arrived at in Committee that the new Commissioners should help in the work of the old Commissioners; but a litigant should have the power of claiming the assistance of the Judicial Commissioner. THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. HOLMES) said, this was provided later on. Amendment agreed to. On Motion of Mr. ATTORNEY GENERAL for IRELAND the following Amendments made: — Page 9, line 24, leave out from the beginning...
...convinced am I that there is a growing and overwhelming consensus of opinion in favour of the maintenance of the Parliamentary Union between Great Britain and Ireland; and I cannot help thinking that the House will hail with the very deepest satisfaction the clear and ringing terms of the Queen's Speech. I am convinced that it is only under the peaceful protection of the Union that the strength and safety of the Empire, the progress of the two peoples, and the real happiness of Ireland can be secured. And now, Mr....
...two very brief observations. I have disclaimed Party feeling in this speech, and I hope thus far I have kept tolerably close to my promise at the outset. I cannot help saying that, looking at the exact terms of this paragraph as compared with the terms of the Ministerial speeches made before the elections, I see a considerable difference, and cannot help asking whether it is intended or not to make that difference the subject of Ministerial exposition? Sir, one other remark I have to make which is not contentious at...
...saying that, looking at the exact terms of this paragraph as compared with the terms of the Ministerial speeches made before the elections, I see a considerable difference, and cannot help asking whether it is intended or not to make that difference the subject of Ministerial exposition? Sir, one other remark I have to make which is not contentious at all. I hope and I feel assured that there is no intention at all on the part of Her Majesty's Government, or, I hope, of any person in this House, whatever...
...they are in this case, I am not ashamed to express my joy at finding that in these days of profitless trade something considerable has occurred in Burmah that may help to lift our commerce out of the slough of depression. Sir, before I sit down I will allude to one more passage in the Gracious Speech from the Throne. I rejoice to see that the noble Lord the Secretary of State for India (Lord Randolph Churchill) proposes an inquiry by this House as to the results of the Indian administration...
...Irish history; and when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Mid Lothian (Mr. Gladstone) tonight accuses the Government of vacillation in dealing with the Irish Question, I could not help recalling those years in the history of the late Parliament when outrage and murder stalked abroad in Ireland, and when no hand was raised—at all events, not the hands of a paralyzed Government—to arrest its evil course, and the first blow at the organization, of which the hon. Member for the City of Cork (Mr. Parnell) was the head, was...
...under such circumstances, with such fire, and such true eloquence, must have impressed a large portion of the House. Moreover, I do not scruple to say that I could not help listening with an amount of pleasure—such as I have experienced before on more than one occasion—to the not un-genial or ill-natured, though sometimes bitter, humour of the hon. Member for South Derry (Mr. Healy). It has occurred to me within the last hour and a half or two hours that there are considerations which might possibly influence the House of...
...interested in it. A Blue Book, containing as much detail as the Government have it in their power to produce, has been laid upon the Table tonight; and I cannot help thinking that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hunter), who has given Notice of the Motion, and who takes great interest in the subject, will, at a future time, be in a better position to bring his views before the House of Commons than he can possibly be at the present moment. He may have exceptional facilities for obtaining information on the...
...great country. Having the privilege of living in the North of Ireland, where at present there is peace and quietude, I sympathize with those in the South, though unable to help them without the authority and support of the law. Her Majesty has plainly indicated the course that will be pursued. The Loyalists will be supported, and those who are weak and trodden down by others. Lawlessness and intimidation will not be allowed to reign supreme. The issue must soon be decided, and the British nation must be at once awakened...
...which may have existed, and at the same time tend to increase public confidence in their administration of affairs. In reference to foreign affairs in Her Majesty's Speech, I cannot help noticing that Her Majesty's Ministers have one great advantage over the late Government in this respect. They can come and meet Parliament with, so to speak, a clean bill of health in respect to their management of affairs abroad. They I have had dangers to encounter, and difficulties to avoid; but they have no long tale of disaster and defeat...
...of one Peer and a third per month; and if he remains in Office the 10 years which he once intimated, we shall have 160 excellent new Conservative Peers to help us in our work. I do not intend to delay your Lordships. As to the depression in trade and agriculture, I do not propose to say anything against the statement in the Royal Speech. It does not remove the melancholy fact that this depression seems common to all countries in the world. I read at the end of last Session...
...in this world go by comparison, I say it is positively cheerful in comparison with the black descriptions we have had about that country from so many sources. I cannot help feeling grateful as an individual that I have no share in, or responsibility with, the Government at this moment. That responsibility was immensely increased by the policy which Her Majesty's present Advisors adopted when they formed a Government. Various reasons were given for that policy. It was announced by the noble Marquess that it was impossible to strengthen the hands...
