<FileID>137180</FileID>
<URL>https://api.parliament.uk/historic-hansard/lords/1885/jun/12/acceleration-of-registration-in-1885</URL>
<Title>Acceleration of Registration in 1885</Title>
<DebRef>HL Deb 12 June 1885 vol 298 cc1524-7</DebRef>
<SittingDate>1885-06-12</SittingDate>
<SittingType>Lords</SittingType>
<WordCount>1701</WordCount>

(Power to appoint additional barristers.) "If in the present year it is made to appear to any judge of the High Court of Justice, sitting in chambers at any time after the fifth day of September, that the lists of voters for any Parliamentary county or borough in England cannot by reason of the insufficient number of barristers be revised within the period fixed by this Act, such judge shall appoint one or more duly qualified barristers to act in addition to the barristers originally appointed for such county or borough, and a barrister so appointed shall have the same duties, powers, and authority an if he had been originally appointed. "Where the Lord Chief Justice or judge appoints in the present year barristers for counties and boroughs on any circuit, he shall appoint them to act for all the counties and boroughs for which he has power to appoint revising barristers; and each barrister, when acting in or for any county or borough, shall have the same duties, powers, and authority as if he had been appointed sole revising barrister for such county or borough. "The duties of barristers so appointed shall be distributed among them as the Lord Chief Justice or judge who appoints them, or, after the fifth day of September, any judge of the High Court of Justice sitting in Chambers may direct. (Dates for registration in the year 18S5 in England.) "With respect to the registration of voters in Parliamentary counties and boroughs in England in the present year, the following provisions shall have effect:— "( a. )The lists of Parliamentary voters, and the lists of burgesses which are revised together with the lists of Parliamentary voters, shall be revised between the eighth day of September and the eighth day of October both inclusive, and shall be revised as soon as possible after the seventh day of September, and the eighth day of September shall be substituted in the Acts relating to the registration of Parliamentary voters fur the 15th day of September; and the declarations under section ten at the County Voters Registration Act, 1803 , and section twenty-lour of the Parliamentary and Municipal Registration Act, 1878 , shall be sent to the Clerk of the Peace or town clerk on or before the fifth day of September. "( b. )The printed book or register containing the lists of voters, when revised, shall be delivered to the returning officer for the Parliamentary county or borough to which such book or register relates on or before the seventh day of November, and shall be the register of persons entitled to vote for the county or borough at any election of a member to serve in Parliament which takes place after that day, or if this present Parliament is not then dissolved, then after the date of such dissolution, and before the first day of January one thousand eight hundred and eighty-seven. "( c. )In sections sixty-two and sixty-three of the Act of the session of the sixth and seventh years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter 1525
 eighteen, relating to appeals from revising barristers in England, 'the Michaelmas sittings of the High Court of Justice' shall be substituted for ' the Michaelmas term,' and forthwith after the fourth day of the Michaelmas sittings a court or courts shall sit for the purpose of hearing such appeals, and those appeals shall be heard and determined continuously and without delay, and any statement by the barrister for the purpose of any such appeal made in pursuance of section forty-two of the said Act may be made at any time within ten days after the conclusion of the revision, so that it be made not less than four days before the first day of the said Michaelmas sittings, and the statement need not be read in open court, but shall be submitted to the appellant, who shall sign the same as directed by the said section, and return the same to the barrister. (35 & 36 Viet. c. 33.) " (d.) In section five of the Ballot Act, 1872 . relating to polling districts, the first day of October shall be substituted for the first day of November, as respects the date at which orders relating to polling districts apply to registers of voters. (Date for registration for 1885 in Scotland.) "In Scotland, notwithstanding anything contained in section thirteen of the Representation of the people Act, 1884, the register of voters made in the present year shall come into force on the first day of November one thousand eight hundred and eighty-five." (Dates for revision in Ireland in 1885. 13 & 11 Viet. c. 69. ss. 46, 47, 64, 76.) "In Ireland, in the present year "( a. )The lists of voters shall be revised between the fourth day of September and the eighth day of October, both inclusive, and shall be revised as soon as possible after the fourth day of September, and that day shall be substituted in the Parliamentary Registration (Ireland) Act for the eighth day of September. "( b. )Notice of the holding of a revision court may be given by the chairman or revising barrister to the clerk of the peace at any time not less than five days before the holding of the court, and shall be published and posted by the clerk of the peace forthwith. "( c. ) The book or books constituting the register of voters for every county and borough shall be signed and delivered to the sheriff or returning officer not later than the seventh day of November. "Such register shall commence and come into force on the seventh day of November, or if this present Parliament is not then dissolved, then on the day of such dissolution, and shall be the register of voters in force between the day on which it commences and the first day of January one thousand eight hundred and eighty-seven." " (d.) In sections seventy-five and seventy-six of the Act of the session of the thirteenth and fourteenth years of the reign of Her present Majesty, chapter sixty-nine, relating to appeals from chairmen or revising barristers, ' the Michaelmas sitting,? of the High Court of Justice in Ireland' shall be substituted for ' the Michaelmas term,' and forthwith after the fourth day of the Michaelmas sittings, a court or courts shall sit for the purpose of hearing such appeals, and those appeals 1526
 shall be heard and determined continuously and without delay, and any statement by the chairman or revising barrister for the purpose of any such appeal made in pursuance of section fifty-eight of the said Act may be made at any time within ten days after the conclusion of the revision, so that it be made not less than four days before the first day of the said Michaelmas sittings, and the statement need not be read in open court, but shall be submitted to the appellant, who shall sign the same as directed by the said section, and return the same to the chairman or revising barrister. (Definitions.) "For the purposes of this part of this Act— The expression 'present year' means the year one thousand eight hundred and eighty-five. The expression 'parliamentary county ' means a county returning a member or members to serve in Parliament, and where a county is divided for the purpose of such return means a division of such county. (41 & 42 Viet. c. 26.) "Other expressions in this part of this Act have, unless the context otherwise requires, the same meaning as in the Acts relating to the registration of parliamentary voters. (Temporary repeal of inconsistent provisions.) "All provisions of any Act of Parliament inconsistent with the provisions of this part of this Act shall not apply to the lists or register of voters to be made in the present year; but, save as aforesaid, all the provisions of the Acts relating to the registration of parliamentary voters shall remain in full force." Schedule (6, page 37, column 2, line 24, leave out ("detached"); line 25, after ("entirely")insert("or, nearly.") Seventh Schedule. 
<speaker>VISCOUNT BURY</speaker> proposed an Amendment, which in effect was that a division of Hampshire should be called "The Lymington" instead of "The New Forest" Division. Amendment moved, in page 59, line 35, before ("New Forest") insert ("Lymington and.")—( The Viscount Bury. ) THE EARL OF KIMBERLEY said, he objected to the Amendment, as the matter had been discussed and disposed of by the House of Commons. 
<speaker>VISCOUNT CRANBROOK</speaker> said, he hoped that his noble Friend (Viscount Bury) would not press his Amendment. On Question? Resolved in the negative. On the Motion of The Earl of KIMBERLEY, the following Amendments made: — In page 77, line 17, 2nd column, after ("Stafford") insert ("including the whole of the parish of Gnosall"); lines 18 and 19, leave out ("including the whole of the parish of Gnosall"); page 90, line 28, after ("Kilbride") insert ("and so much of the parish of Kirkpatrick juxta as may be in the county of Lanark"); line 36, leave out ("so much") and insert the ("detached portion"); page 91, line 1, leave out ("as") and insert ("which"); page 103, lines 11 and 12, leave out ("North Liberties"); page 110, line 3, leave out ("Kilculliheen"); and line 28, after ("Dysart") insert ("except the town-lands of Ballyote, Slanebeg, and Slane-more"). Standing Order No. XXXV. considered (according to Order), and dispensed with; Bill read 3 a with the Amendments, and passed, and sent to the Commons. THE EARL OF KIMBERLEY proposed that their Lordships should adjourn during pleasure, in order that they might receive the Bill on its return from the Commons after the Amendments had been considered. 
<speaker>EARL GRANVILLE</speaker> said, that he should propose that their Lordships should meet at the usual hour on Monday; but it would be necessary for the House to meet tomorrow as a Committee for Privileges, and therefore the Adjournment would be formally until tomorrow. House adjourned during pleasure. House resumed. On the Motion of Earl GRANVILLE, House adjourned till Tomorrow. c1527 THE EARL OF LINDSAY. 32 words c1527 REAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION BILL. [H.L.] 30 words c1527 PRIVATE AND PROVISIONAL ORDER CONFIRMATION BILLS. 25 words