<FileID>137946</FileID>
<URL>https://api.parliament.uk/historic-hansard/commons/1885/jul/23/parliament-house-of-commons-e-a-gosset</URL>
<Title>Parliament—house of Commons—e A Gosset, Esq, Serjeant-at-Arms</Title>
<DebRef>HC Deb 23 July 1885 vol 299 cc1635-7</DebRef>
<SittingDate>1885-07-23</SittingDate>
<SittingType>Commons</SittingType>
<WordCount>1028</WordCount>


<speaker>THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER (Sir MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH)</speaker> I beg to move that the letter of Mr. Gosset be read by the Clerk at the Table. Motion agreed to. The following letter was then read:— "House of Commons, "20th July, 1885. Sir, "I have the honour to make application to you that you will be pleased to sanction my retirement on the 30th of September next from my office, by Patent, of Her Majesty's Serjeant-at-Arms attending the Speaker of the House of Commons. "I have been in the service of this honourable House for upwards of 49 years, and I feel that the time has arrived when it is desirable that I should no longer retain my appointment. "I make this early communication in order that arrangements may be made without inconvenience. "I hare the honour to be, "Sir," Your very obedient Servant, "R. A. GOSSET, "Serjeant-at-Arms. "The Rt. Honble. "The Speaker." THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER Sir, I am sure that the House will have received the letter which has just been read with a feeling of universal and sincere regret. The Serjeant-at-Arms entered the service of this House, as he reminds us in that letter, at a period now more than 49 years ago. He was first appointed on the 1st of July, 1836, as Assistant Serjeant by his father Sir William Gosset, who, as the House will recollect, was himself for 30 years Serjeant-at-Arms of this House. On the 1st of April, 1854, Mr. Gosset was promoted to be Deputy Serjeant, and on the 5th April, 1875, in response to what was at the time described as the strong if not the unanimous feeling of the House of Commons, Her Majesty was graciously pleased to appoint him Serjeant-at-Arms. This would be, in any event, a long record of able and faithful service to the State on the part of one of those officials to whom this House has always owed much, but to whom, I think, in view of our ever-increasing labours, it every year owes more on account of their faithful discharge of duty. But I think that the House will feel that this is no ordinary case. Mr. Gosset has not only obtained our confidence and esteem by the firmness and dignity with which he has always discharged the duties of a very important office, but he has also brought to bear upon the discharge of those duties—and I may perhaps say especially at those times when they have been most trying and most difficult—a genial and kindly courtesy which have won for him the affectionate regard of every Member of this House. Sir, we are very sorry to lose him. He has well earned the honourable repose which he seeks, and I am sure that he will carry with him into it a feeling of personal friendship on the part of everyone who has known him as a Member of this House. Sir, in accordance with precedent, I beg leave to move the Resolution which I now place in your hands. Motion made, and Question proposed, That Mr. Speaker be requested to acquaint Ralph Allen Gosset, esquire, that this House entertains a just sense of the exemplary manner in which he has uniformly discharged the duties of the office of Serjeant-at-Arms, and has devoted himself to the service of the House for a period of nearly fifty years."—( Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer. ) 
<speaker>SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT</speaker> I rise, Sir, with great satisfaction to second the Motion just made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I doubt if any Motion could be made in this House which would receive a more unanimous assent. There are few Members of this House—I doubt whether there is any Member present today—who can remember a period antecedent to that at which Mr. Gosset commenced his service towards this House. We all know the important nature of the duties with which he has been charged, and how much the personal convenience of Members depends upon those duties being discharged with diligence and judgment. The qualities which Mr. Gosset brought to bear upon the performance of those duties we have all experienced. We have all felt his constant courtesy and kindness, and I am sure that we join in the regret which the Chancellor of the Exchequer has expressed that we are now to lose his services. We feel that in losing Mr. Gossot we are losing not merely an invaluable public servant, but each and all of us feel that we are losing a valued personal friend. MR. PAENELL Sir. I desire to join in the expression of regret that Captain Cosset is to be no more among us in this House. Speaking for all my hon. Friends, as well as expressing my own opinion, I desire to take this opportunity of recording my high appreciation of the uniform kindness and courtesy which Captain Cosset has shown to each and all of us, and sometimes under trying circumstances. I do not know whether the old maxim is exemplified in regard to Captain Cosset— Hibernicis ipsis Hibernior. But it has been often observed that those who dwell among Irishmen catch some of their character, and especially of their humour and amiability. Captain Cosset has been, for many years, in that part of the House which is sacred to the Irish Members, no matter what Government is in power. Whether that fact has had any effect upon the natural disposition of Captain Cosset I cannot say; but we certainly have all found him exceptionally kind and amiable to us Irishmen who sit near him, and I have often noticed that, while generous and patient and good to everybody, Captain Cosset seemed to acquire an additionally pleasant aspect whenever he had to extend his courtesy to any one of us. Question put, and agreed to. Resolved, Nemine Contradicente, That Mr. Speaker be requested to acquaint Ralph Allen Gosset, esquire, that this House entertains a just sense of the exemplary manner in which he has uniformly discharged the duties of the office of Serjeant-at-Arms, and has devoted himself to the service of the House, for a period of nearly fifty years.