<FileID>138260</FileID>
<URL>https://api.parliament.uk/historic-hansard/lords/1885/jul/30/observations</URL>
<Title>Observations</Title>
<DebRef>HL Deb 30 July 1885 vol 300 cc501-3</DebRef>
<SittingDate>1885-07-30</SittingDate>
<SittingType>Lords</SittingType>
<WordCount>981</WordCount>


<speaker>LORD LAMINGTON,</speaker> in rising to call the attention of Her Majesty's Government to the site of the National Portrait Gallery, said, that only a few months ago this most valuable collection was almost destroyed by fire, and they had a report from Captain Shaw to that effect. His advice would be that the collection at South Kensington should be kept together, and that a building should be erected on the present site. If there should not be a distinct pledge from the Government that a new gallery should be built for this most admirable collection next year, in his opinion the pictures might as well go to Kensal Green as to Bethnal Green, because when they were a few years at Bethnal Green it would be said that they had been safe there, they had done a great deal of good to the people of the East End, and that they might as well be left there. He would ask the noble Lord whether, if the pictures went to Bethnal Green, it would be on the distinct understanding that the present Government, if they were in Office next year—and that was not quite certain—would erect a suitable building for the reception of the pictures? A most valuable picture had been received the other day from the Emperor of Austria —a picture of Pitt addressing the House of Commons on the declaration of war against France in 1793. That picture had been discovered by the industry at assiduity of the Secretary, Mr. Scharf, who went to Vienna. The Emperor of Austria gave it to Lady Paget, and she presented it to the National Portrait Gallery. 
<speaker>LORD HENNIKER</speaker> said, he thought every one of their Lordships would sympathize with the noble Lord in his desire for the safekeeping of the very valuable collection at the National Portrait Gallery. The right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works had given the question very careful consideration in consultation with the best authorities, and he had come to the conclusion that the place where these pictures were at present housed was in a most unsatisfactory state. Another gallery near to it had been spoken of; but it was found that this was equally unsatisfactory. In fact, there was no place available at the present time under the control of the First Commissioner where the collection could be properly housed even temporarily; but he had come to the conclusion that this invaluable collection ought at once to be removed. Under these circumstances, the Trustees decided to make a proposal to the Science and Art Department to take the collection on loan at the Bethnal Green Museum. Among the Trustees were the noble Viscount (Viscount Hardinge), the Chairman, Mr. Gladstone, the Lord President of the Council, Mr. Stanhope, the noble Lord who had brought the Motion forward, Mr. Beresford Hope, Sir Richard Wallace, Sir Frederic Leighton, and Sir J. E. Millais. No doubt, their Lordships would have every confidence in the judgment of such a body. They were unanimous, he was told, in making the proposal, and he believed the noble Lord (Lord Lamington) was the only Trustee who dissented. He had told their Lordships why. It had now been arranged that the noble Viscount the Lord President should be requested to ascertain whether the offer of the loan in question would be accepted. The noble Viscount was the Head of the Science and Art Department, which had control over the Bethnal Green Museum, as well as a I Trustee of the National Portrait Gallery; and he wished he was there to speak for himself; but he might say if there was any doubt as to the safety of placing the collection at Bethnal Green that Sir Richard Wallace did not hesitate to leave his magnificent collection there for two or three years. The loan for obvious reasons would be a temporary one only; but he felt sure that, as was the case with the collection of Sir Richard Wallace, which was visited by over 900,000 persons in six months, and that of the Prince of Wales, which was visited by a somewhat larger number in the year, this collection would be most fully appreciated by those living in the East End of London, who might not have such another opportunity of seeing these pictures. To show the general interest taken in the Museum, he might say that th8 number of visitors, taking the average of 13 years, was 576,000 annually. He thought their Lordships would fully endorse the decision of the Trustees in consultation with his right hon. Friend. He must remind their Lordships that the Office of Works had no control over the collection. The duty of the Office was to provide a proper place when directed by Parliament and the necessary Vote was granted. It was impossible for the First Commissioner to make any definite proposals or give any definite pledge for the future; but it was his intention to give most careful consideration to the question of a site for a new gallery; and if, as he (Lord Henniker) hoped in common with many of their Lordships, an Estimate was prepared to provide a proper place for the collection, which no doubt the new Parliament would have the public spirit to grant, he would endeavour to have plans ready. He might be allowed to express his personal interest in the collection, which could not be replaced, as his noble Relative the late Lord Stanhope had done so much in making the collection. He believed their Lordships would agree with him that his right hon. Friend had done all he could under the circumstances in conjunction with the Trustees to preserve the collection to the country, and to endeavour to come to a satisfactory conclusion as to its permanent home. House adjourned at a quarter past Eight o'clock, till Tomorrow, a quarter before One o'clock.